This way, we can increase the turnover from 80% to 300%
But before we move on to the rules, I would like to focus on the goals
Because goals are the first thing we define
I would like to focus on the goals of the merchandiser and the salesperson
I would like to draw your attention to the fact that these are different goals
And you should consider the goals of the salesperson when you come to her and offer your standard
You should understand what they want
Let's look at the goals of the manufacturer
Increasing the turnover and volume of sales of your own product
If you pay attention to the salesperson's goals, you will see that the salesperson's turnover is increasing
It doesn't matter if your product is increasing or someone else's
The main thing is that the turnover of the store becomes larger
The next goal of the manufacturer is to draw attention to its own assortment, to its own trademark
And this is understandable because our goal is to promote our trademark to the market
And what does the salesperson tell us?
The salesperson says that it is important for him to optimize the assortment of the store as a whole
Because the store provides a service for selecting an assortment
And not the only product that the buyer needs to present
The main thing is that the buyer came and found everything he needs in this trading point
Therefore, he will not pay special attention to your product
The next goal of the manufacturer is to create a competitive advantage of the product
And what do we see from the seller?
Of course, the creation of a competitive advantage of the store
For example, there is a wider assortment, lower prices, convenient parking, or a complex with a store, cafe and entertainment center
That is, the seller cares about the competitive advantage of the store as a whole
It is a competitive advantage of our product
Our goals do not converge here
The next point is to create an attachment to the trademark, the manufacturer tells us
What does the seller say?
He just needs an optimal assortment of well-known brands that will attract certain buyers
He does not care about the attachment to a particular brand
He cares about the attachment to a package of well-known brands
The next goal of the manufacturer is, of course, to avoid a situation when the product is absent in the trading point
This is a very important point
Because when your product is not there, the buyer just switches to another trading brand
For the store, of course, it is also important that the full assortment is present
But if there is no your product, they will put another one
In general, there will be no problems
Therefore, here you yourself must make sure that your product is present in the trading point
And the next goal is to create an attachment to the positive image of the manufacturer
The manufacturer says, it is important for me to be well perceived
And what does the store say?
The store says that it is important for him to be perceived in general
The store is good, positive
To have flexible conditions there, for example, in terms of working time
For example, until the last buyer
Or something like that
That is, the store is important, of course, everything in general
And our trading brand is important to us
And these things need to be taken into account when we develop the standard of merchandising
And we offer our products to the trading point
Let's consider the main tasks of the merchandising company
What should you pay attention to when you develop the standard
Or when you determine the product schedule
What you must take into account
The first is the minimum set of assortment positions
Or they also call it SKU
Roughly speaking, one unit of the assortment
That is, how many of you should have the layout of this assortment
So that your layout looks high quality and good
The next task is the place where your product is placed
You must determine the category in which department your product is placed
And in what place of the store
The next task is the number of additional sales places
This is very important, because additional sales places
Give the opportunity for additional acquaintance with your product
And, of course, there is your most popular product
Which greatly increases the turnover
You must determine in advance where it is possible to place additional places
Next, you must determine the number of SKU
How many assortment units of the product are set
And the order of their placement
For example, from light to dark, from the lowest price to the highest
From the lowest fat to the highest, and so on
That is, the order can be different depending on the product
Depending on the colors, if the product is set from light to dark
Or the combination of colors, or joint purchase
That is, the rules can be different, there are a lot of them
But nevertheless, you must immediately determine in the standard
According to what rules you place this product
The next point is the number of positions, or they also call it facing
Look, the assortment is an assortment unit
For example, you decided that you will put three office chairs
But these three office chairs can be repeated, right?
And there will be three SKU, because there are three different types
And facing is how many chairs there will be
Roughly speaking, if you put each SKU in two positions
Then the facing will be equal to six
The next thing to determine is the stock or the minimum load
The stock must be such that it is constantly present on the shelf of the store
And your product, even taking into account that it leaves this shelf
That is, a certain stock must always be in the storehouse of the seller
The next point is positioning the price relative to the competitors
That is, you must immediately determine in what price category your product is located
Because different price categories are distributed differently
And actually, where this product will be located, next to which competitors
And what is the recommended price of your product
Because we know that each store gives its own rating, it is different
Therefore, we must clearly determine what the rating will be
The next point that is often determined by very famous manufacturers
This is the share relative to the competitors of your product
For example, you say that the share of our office chairs must be 50% relative to competitors
That is, half of the categories should be occupied by us
This is, of course, an ambitious goal, but nevertheless, such goals are set
In order to ensure their recognition
And two more points that we must talk about
This is, of course, the placement of the price tags
A clear and competent design is necessary and where they are placed
In some stores there are price tag standards, this is great
But in some stores they are simply not observed
Therefore, where and how we place them must be necessarily agreed upon in the standard of merchandising
And the last point is the schedule itself
That is, we must draw out how, where and why our product is in what order
So that the merchandising does not invent, compose and fantasize
How to put it, how it will be better, how worse
We must give him a clear instruction so that he does not touch it
Only this will ensure you increased sales and efficiency of this tool
All the basic rules of merchandising will be described in your lecture material
Which will help you to correctly form a schedule and a standard of merchandising
These rules are divided into three groups
This is the location, presentation and stock
You can decode all of them there, look at the rules of the layout
And, in fact, create your own merchandising standard
And about the location itself, I would like to say a few more words
And show you the hot and cold zones in the store
To understand where you can put your product and where not
Here is an image on the slide
And there you see that all 100% that enter the store
Only 90% of them are in the first square
The other 10% take what is needed and go to the checkout
Or return, leaving the store
Then, along the way, only 70% pass
The other 20% have already taken the product and gone to the checkout
Only 50% pass further
And at the end of the store, that is, the entire cycle of the store only 30% passes
You see how the number of buyers who pass the whole hall decreases
This naturally reduces the efficiency of sales
And that square where the buyer is only 30%
This is the bottom left square
It is considered the most ineffective
It is considered the cold zone of the store
If your product is located in this zone, do not be surprised
Why are your sales so small
How to avoid this
You can highlight something bright
You can put large figures
Additional lighting
Any bright things that attract the attention of the buyer
And will make them go further
Remember the location of the supermarkets
In this department, most often, there is bread
And not only is it baked there
The smell of bread makes us go there
Like Pavlov's dog, this smell
Makes us go through most of the store
That is why departments are placed in this way
Also on the slide you have the rules of the golden triangle
The location of the golden triangle consists of three parts
The first is the entrance
The second point is the checkout
And the third point is the departments that are visited most often
By the buyer
Milk, meat
That is, daily products are sold there
For which the buyer came for sure
And your task as a manufacturer
If you are a manufacturer, to get into the zone of this golden triangle
Because when you get into the zone of the golden triangle
Your sales increase by at least 80%
There, most often, the buyers pass
And the task of the store itself is to expand this zone
That is, to distribute the most popular departments, checkout and entrance by distance
Thus, expanding the field of active activity of buyers
And the zone of active purchases
Well, we move on to stimulating end consumers
Not all companies are engaged in stimulating end consumers
Nevertheless, yes, it is an expensive process, but very necessary
Because the client can leave us to other intermediaries
If he is not satisfied with our discount
And end consumers are more loyal
If they liked our products
They will definitely come back to us
Buying from us and providing us with this or that income
So, when we stimulate end consumers
The main goal is, of course, to increase the volume of sales
But you can increase the volume of sales in several ways
And you have it shown on the diagram
At least, the increase in sales is divided into two parts
To ensure loyalty and trial purchases
Trial purchases are, of course, more related to the new product
And loyalty is already related to the existing product
To maintain the recognition and loyalty of our product
These two groups are divided into goals
Additionally, trial purchases are divided into two parts
Pre-ordering of the product, that is, the person should want to buy it
And availability, he should find a place where it is sold
And loyalty is divided into three parts
Frequency of purchase, how often do they buy
Adherence, do they buy our brand all the time
And the possibility or frequency of switching from the brand of competitors to our brand
All these five goals are laid out further
You can see it in the lecture material
There is a detailed description of each of the possible goals
When setting and developing the stimulation program for end consumers
We will see how to properly plan these actions
Planning consists of three main steps
The first is to determine the target audience
We must understand who we are targeting our program for
Who are its participants
There are several criteria that help the target audience to determine the end consumers
Three main groups are regional criteria
The lifestyle of consumers
And the third group is demographic criteria
I will tell you that demographic criteria are most often used
Age, gender, education level
The second place is regional criteria, location, climate
It is very important for some products
And the third place is the criteria of the lifestyle of consumers
These criteria are more sociological, that's why they are used less often
To determine your target audience by these criteria
You need specialists, sociologists or psychologists
That's why they are used less often
When we determined the target audience, we described it
For example, our target audience of vitamins
Polyvitamins
These are women between 25 and 45 years old
With a family, at least one child
Working, with a higher or lower education
Living in cities with a population of at least 200,000 people
Here is a segmentation of vitamins consumption
Of course, all other categories, women or men, can also consume vitamins
But we, remember, select the target audience
That is, the one that buys the most
Here we have determined it
The clearer your segmentation, the more competently you will develop the promotion program
Remember, skeletons are yogurts that were aimed at a group of teenagers between 12 and 14 years old
The positioning was very clear
It was this that gave such success to this product
Yes, parents didn't like this product because there were skeletons drawn
It was ridiculous and funny
Or maybe it was unpleasant for someone
But skeletons achieved their target audience
And their sales were amazing
Therefore, the target audience is a determining factor of success
The second step is the time of holding
We determine how long the promotion will last
It can be a long-term promotion
It can be held during the season
Or regular events, or periodic
What is it about?
Or some festive events
And we determine whether it is short-term, medium-term, and long-term
It can be more than 3 months and up to a year
Although I will say that short-term events are more effective than long-term
Why?
When we hold a promotion program in a short period
The effect comes quickly
Sales rise quickly
And we see the result right away
Because we make our customers act immediately
The duration of the action is limited by the program
And when the program is long-term, there is such a postponement effect
The program is still going on for a long time
I will come later, I will do it later, I will buy it later
While I have this, while I have that
As a result, your promotion works worse
It has no peak
It rises a little and goes to this level
And you get the feeling that you spend a lot, but you have no effect
Therefore, short-term promotions work more effectively
And work more purposefully for end consumers
Well, the third point that we must determine is budget restrictions
The budget is offered in different ways
It is developed in different ways
Here are the main methods of budget formation
The first is the percentage of sales
When we say that we have a sales volume and such a percentage, for example, 3 or 5 percent
We can take it for a promotion program
Yes, this is an option, because it depends on the turnover, it is tied clearly
And we will not spend more than necessary
The second option is possible, it is from the profit
The owner says, wow, you can take from the turnover
And you take from the additional turnover, how much you earn additionally, or rather from the profit
This is also a correct option, because it is important for the owner how much additional money he will receive
And not just stimulate his end consumers
The next point is planning for goals
When you set goals, determine the share that you need
And then you form a budget
And then you approve this budget
Planning for goals is the most competent option for planning
But, of course, you need to calculate and not go into losses
If we planned for goals that we need to spend certain amounts
It does not mean that the company should work in losses
The marketer should count both sides of the coin
Both sides of the spending and sides of the income
Otherwise, the share will not be effective, and therefore it will not be a stimulus share
The next two points that can be taken into account
Comparing with the industry costs
You know how much is spent on advertising
For example, on advertising of washing powder, the company spends 2 million dollars every year
And you, based on this, understand that if you spend 1.5 million
There will be no such effect
If you spend 2.5 million, there will be more effect
But 2.5 million is an average amount that you need to make to ensure such fame
The average spending on advertising is compared
There are sources of information, for example, the journal Praktika Reklamy
It is constantly published there
The next point that can be taken into account is the comparison with competitors
Look what competitors do
We know how much advertising costs in the media
How much it costs to hold a certain promotion
How much it costs to promote
How much it costs to make a video, etc.
We know all these estimates
Looking at what competitors do, you can safely calculate how much they spend
And if you position yourself next to them
You can determine such an amount or a little more
Depending on what goals you have for advertising
There is also one method, the most ineffective, for residual funds
Roughly speaking, how much money is left is yours
Usually, there is no money left
That's why such a method is the most ineffective and does not usually give results
I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in your lecture material
Rules and techniques for creating ideas will be voiced and outlined
The most basic rules that are used in one way or another when developing various promotions
These are the magic numbers when we say
All goods for 10 rubles or two for the price of one, etc.
The next is crisis sales
Remember the company Zhe, the store Zhe that says sales
Sales have been going on for two or three years
And how could it not be sold
You announce this and all customers come to you because they think you are closing
Next, a gift for purchase
This is another idea that is very often used and used
Because everyone likes to receive gifts
What else would I like to draw your attention to?
When you think about the idea of ​​a promotion, pay attention to the topics that are interesting to everyone
What topics are interesting to everyone?
Cars, sports, war, sex, children, animals, entertainment, food
Everything that concerns our life, everything that guides us one way or another
You can take all these topics as an idea for a promotion
Because everything that concerns our life, everything that passes through feelings, through emotions works very well
You can apply various ambivalence or gossips
For example, a discount is equal to the number of years
Or today there will be such a discount as today, for example, the number in the yard
The only thing is that everyone will wait until the end of the month because the discount will be higher
Next, you can apply elements of the corporate style
In my video, the company did such a promotion
Everyone who comes in red will get a 10% discount
Next, you can develop the existing concept
For example, you already have a discount card
But you continue to work with it and say
Everyone who comes with a discount card today will get a double discount
Not the one that is indicated on the card
And, in fact, new well-taken care of the old
Again, recommendations, make a database and look at them
What actions work best for you
I would like to offer you another method
This is an assessment of the creative idea of ​​the action
There are the main criteria by which you can recheck yourself
Did you take everything into account?
Did you work out all the criteria when you thought out the idea of ​​your action?
It is evaluated on a 10-point scale and, in fact, the final score is then deduced
The final score is not as important as the criteria that earn the lowest scores in your assessment
This means that they are not worked out and you need to do something with them
This is a signal that the action is not fully thought out
What criteria are there?
Of course, the compliance of the trademark
We look at how much your idea complies with the trademark
If your product is exclusive and very expensive, then you should not start a sale
Uniqueness, unique ideas
It's great when you have a high score on this point
But most often, ideas are repeated
However, if you have something interesting, like an office test drive chair
This idea deserves a very high score
Try to come up with something of your own
Or give the agency the opportunity to do it
The next criterion is the ability to implement it in practice
Because you can come up with anything, for example, a flight to the moon
But how much can it be implemented is a question
Therefore, the idea must be realistic
The relevance of the idea
Fashion for certain things
It is desirable to follow fashion
For example, mobile marketing is very relevant now
You can hold promotions on your mobile phone, which work very well
Or with the introduction of new technologies
Effectiveness
Your offer should be interesting to buyers
It should satisfy their needs
Because if they are interested in it, they will not participate in any promotion
The next two criteria are simplicity and availability
Simplicity is how clear the conditions are
So that you don't have this
Go to the forest, look for the tenth stump
Find a coupon, bring it to the fourth store after the fifth turn, and so on
The more complicated the conditions of the promotion, the more likely it is that no one will participate in your promotion
And availability
How easy it is to participate in your promotion
So that it was a trading point nearby
So that a person could come and find where the promotion takes place, where they give prizes, and so on
The next criteria is visibility for the target audience
It is visible and it is good when it coincides with the already held advertising campaigns
It is within the general concept
Not just one promotion, but within the general concept
Then its effectiveness increases many times
The next points
The idea should be in line with all elements of marketing
And be attractive to the target audience
You should also evaluate on a ten-point scale
And the reward for the participants is attractive and useful
They need this product
It's not just some kind of trifle that a person will throw out on the street
This way, using this method, you can evaluate your idea
And see what points you still need to work on
What should you pay attention to when developing a promotional campaign?
Of course, the development of a scenario
This is the main document that will allow you to hold a promotional campaign without a hitch
That is, not to forget anything that is particularly important
So that the campaign takes place and is effective
There are six main sections of a promotional campaign
The first is, of course, a detailed description of the mechanics
What do you want to get from this promotion?
How should this promotion go?
What should your buyer do to get a prize?
What is the prize? Where will it be issued?
In what quantity?
All this must be written down
All the conditions of the promotion
This is probably the most important thing to do in the first place
Because the budget of your promotion will depend on it
The next thing to do is to choose a place to hold the promotion
That is, where do you hold it?
How many trading points?
If it's in trading points or somewhere else
It is important to choose a place to hold the promotion
And decide whether to agree to hold this promotion at the period that you are interested in
The next main point to consider is working with the promo staff
You need to take this moment especially seriously
Because the result of your promotion depends on the promo staff
If you give it all to the agency for a bribe
And do not take part in this
You risk that your promo staff will not be ready for the promotion
Will not understand what kind of product it is
What is the purpose of the promotion
And most importantly, what should be achieved
As a result, the money spent will simply go nowhere
Therefore, be sure to participate in the selection of promo staff and in its preparation
This is a key point
The next step is preparation for the event
You have scheduled it, you have recruited everyone
Now you need to check if everything is ready
Do the sales managers know that the product needs to be delivered?
Do the trading points know that they are holding a promotion?
Does the promo staff know everything?
Are there enough prizes?
Are they brought to the trading points?
All these points must be checked and calculated
And once again, I remind everyone
That at some point the promotion starts
So that everyone is ready
The next step is the event itself
Here I have one recommendation for you
Strict control
In Russia, the order to become a management is a reason for reflection
Therefore, always check if everything goes well
If there is no control, I assure you
Mistakes and failures will be more than enough
Because even when there is control, this happens
But there you can at least react quickly
If you don't control, the results of the promotion will be depressing
And you won't be able to fix anything
Therefore, always control and correct the situation during the promotion
Keep your fingers crossed
The next step is the action after the promotion
That is, the analysis of efficiency
Here you must calculate
Did you spend money in vain?
Did you do everything that was necessary?
What were the miscalculations or problems?
In the lecture material, you will have an example of the promotion report
That you can use in your work
What mistakes are most often made during promotions?
I counted 17 of them
Maybe you will add something to my list?
What happened, it happened from practice
The first mistake is the lack of planning
When a sales manager comes to us and says
Urgently, I am being taken out of the store, let's do some promotion faster
That is, it was necessary to do everything yesterday
There is a hurry
We start to do something without planning
This is a strategy of picking up the holes, which we have already talked about today
And as a result, the promotion turns out so-so
That is, something, of course, comes out
With the efforts of managers, with the time and resources
But it could have turned out much better if everything was according to plan
Therefore, do not take literally the words of managers
Work according to your plan
Only then will there be order
The next point is poor staff preparation
This is what I was talking about
They did not control the information of the staff
That is, not everyone knows about the promotion, who needs to know
And moreover, the prom staff cannot link two words about your product
Which is completely unacceptable
Theft
In general, theft is probably the common problem in Russia
I do not know
Promoters, of course, even exchange prizes
Sometimes when several promotions take place in the trading point, they begin to exchange prizes
This is not a hobby
Naturally, you cannot prevent 100% theft of your souvenirs, prizes, gifts, and so on
But by giving a decent payment to the promoter
And putting the case under clear control
That is, registration of all, giving out all gifts
You at least reduce this percentage
I do not enjoy illusions that you can completely eliminate this problem
But at least reduce losses
This is also useful
The next is the appearance of promoters
What usually happens
Usually t-shirts, caps, corporate color
And that's it, we stop at this
But in vain
Because the appearance of the promoter is very important
Not only that in ordinary t-shirts and caps
He does not stand out from the crowd
He is simply not seen and does not participate in the promotion
Secondly, when saving money
We simply shift the positioning of our product
We do not highlight it, we do not show all its pros and cons
The appearance of promoters is especially important
And the suit, and his own hairstyle, and his manner of keeping himself
This is all very important
Therefore, pay attention to this
There were cases when there was an ad for elite alcohol
And there the girls were in gorgeous dresses
Of a wonderful look
But they saved on hairstyles
And the image was violated
Therefore, if you invest money, invest it all
So that the integrity of the image is not violated
Then the effect will be completely different from your share
The next point is the lack of a connecting idea
And this is just a problem of looting holes
We act not within the framework of the general marketing program
We act simply by means of a push
The problem has arisen, we need to solve it
The problem has arisen, we solve it again
And the connecting idea does not work
Therefore, everyone is responsible for the share
And if everything was according to plan
Everything is interconnected
The synergy would be much higher
The next mistake in determining the target audience
We have already talked about this in advertising
Here, the same thing, the target audience was wrongly determined
We just did not get it
And did not get such an effect
The lack of clear reports is also one of the disadvantages
And the company itself is to blame for this
Because the company itself must think through the reporting system
After all, it needs efficiency
We spend money, not someone
Therefore, it is in our interests to make a reporting system
And to follow up clearly so that all the reporting is filled
Then we can calculate the effectiveness of the share
A bad organization of regional shares
Probably, the general problem
Because we cannot control, we cannot track
Recommendations should be given to the agency
To the network, which has a head office in the central cities
And its branches in different cities of the Russian Federation
At least they have gained experience
In holding such shares
And they will do it more professionally than the manager in place
And it is not even clear whether these managers are there or not
Therefore, it is better to trust the professionals
The mistake in setting the goals of the promotion companies
We say that we need to introduce a new product
We leave the goal of increasing the volume of sales
This is completely different
Because when we introduce a new product, it is an introduction to the product
The goal was set incorrectly, the mechanics were thought through incorrectly
As a result, the share did not work
That's all
Next
Insufficient allocation of funds for holding the share
We regret the money, we say
Let's save it, cut it here, cut it there
As a result, the cut share is worth nothing
A clear opinion has been formed
If you need to spend something, do it properly
Better
If you want to save, better not to do it at all
At least the money will remain intact
And so you will spend money, even if you do not achieve results
The lack of standard documentation
It is a little bit different from the accounting system
suggests additional costs for your time
If you had standard accounting documentation
You would not do it for every share
And if you do not have it, you have to think through your resources for every share
To make this documentation
The mechanics of holding the share are too complicated
We talked about it before
If it is not clear, it will not work
Next
Lack of centers for giving out prizes
Many clients are offended that they should get a prize
But there is no prize in the center
Or it is very far to go to the center of the prizes
And it creates a negative feeling for your clients
If you do not have the opportunity to provide with prizes
Then it is better to replace the prizes or think of another share mechanics
Because the negative does not forget
It is put aside on your product, even if it is very good
The program can fall out of the general positioning of the trading brand
I gave an example
It is repeated with the reason of the inconsistency of the goals
If the product is exclusive, do not sell it
This is an absolute inconsistency
And you can give many other examples
Next mistake
Wrong choice of promotion channels
We did not ask our clients where they get the information
And as a result, this information did not reach them
Roughly speaking, we posted the ad in one place
And our clients walk on the other road
That's it
And the share did not work at all
Although a lot of money was spent on it
Next
Lack of information about the share
The consumer does not know what the share is
But it is so close
Especially in companies that hold shares for their customers
For wholesale customers
Sales managers just forget to say that this share is held
As a result, we reward companies
They did not even know that the share was held
Believe me, it happens so close
So, the first thing is control
Did the information reach the clients?
The second is feedback
Do they participate or not?
If not, why?
To know what is the reason and what is the problem
We will discuss it next time
And the last reason, perhaps the most painful
Lack of goods in the trading points
Imagine, the share was developed, the script was made
Everything was prepared
The money was paid
And the manager forgot to bring the goods to the trading point
And the share was lost
Yes, such managers probably need to be fired
But you need to fire those people who did not control
That the manager remembered about it
Because the manager has a lot of other work
He needs to sell
And if the marketer is responsible for holding the share
He needs to control
That everyone did what was necessary step by step
So, be sure to control
The most painful thing happens
When the share does not work because of such reason
Well, we have seen the mistakes that happen
I want to draw your attention
To some shares that I just gave as an example
The source of information is btl.ru
There are analysed the holding of various shares
I would like to give the most successful ones
The first share is the share «The Unmissable Moment»
It was held with Sony Ericsson mobile phone
It is called «Cameraphone»
The point of the phone is that you press the button
And you get 9 pictures at once
Not to look for the moment
But to take pictures of a person in different ways
And to get interesting pictures
That's why the share is called «The Unmissable Moment»
The share was held in two stages
The first one was near the shopping centers
There were bright planes with two girls-promoters
These girls took pictures of the cameraphone
Of the buyers who came to these shopping centers
And then these pictures were posted on the website
And it was offered to people who took pictures
To go to the website and download these pictures
The pictures were very interesting
Children were interested in climbing on this plane
And, in general, one way or another
They were allowed to use this mobile phone
But that's not all
The second part of the share was the most interesting
In St. Petersburg and Moscow
Eight business centers were chosen
High, multi-storey
And the girls-promoters were hired
They were wearing parachutes
And they were going down the stairs
From the roof of this business center
Four sides of the business center
The girls were going down from each side
Imagine you are sitting on the 30th floor
And suddenly a girl appears outside the window
What are your feelings?
I will tell you that the business centers
Didn't work that day
All the attention was focused on the windows
The girls were advertising mobile phones
They were taking pictures of the faces of surprised people
Who were in these business centers
In general, this company made a sensation
It cost a lot of money
It cost $80,000
But I want to say that
It also received additional information
From the media
Because it was impossible not to write about it
And right there in the business centers
They started selling these mobile phones
The promotion was very interesting
And unusual in its own way
The next promotion I want to give as an example
Was held in Nizhny Novgorod
It is called Auto-photo-washing
It was a very interesting promotion
It was held by Tele2 mobile operator
They wanted to expand their presence on the market
And everyone who came to the gas station
Was offered to buy a SIM-card from Tele2
The SIM-card cost 100 rubles
When the check was issued
Two girls of a rather sexy appearance
Washed the windshield for free
For the one who bought such a card
I want to say that such a promotion was in great demand for men
It was very interesting for everyone
And in 5 days, I think, this promotion was held
In 5 days, more than 2,000 clients
Used this service
The question is, of course, who stayed with this operator
But I hope that they stayed
The promotion was not so expensive
And it was discussed for a long time
It was interesting
This is another promotion I would like to tell you about
This promotion was held by a company called Sveznoi
In Novosibirsk, it was called Orange Revolution
It was not expensive, but very little
And it was very interesting in its own way
It was an intriguing promotion
It was held in 4 days
The first day, this promotion was held in 2005
On the first day, in the summer
There were many dogs on the streets in orange suits
It was written on them
I know, imagine, you go out
And the whole city is in orange dogs
No one understands what is going on
Why do people go out in orange suits?
Dogs were in orange suits for 2 days
Then they disappeared
And the next type of announcement appeared on the poles
A dog in an orange suit is missing
Who knows where it is, please, tell me
On this phone
All the poles of the city were covered with these announcements
People started to discuss
Radio channels were connected
And local radio stations started to discuss
Who are these dogs, where did they come from, why, what do they know, where did they disappear
It was very well discussed
Then another day passed
Orange wallets appeared on the streets of the city
People started to pick them up
Inside the wallet there was an invitation to open a store
And a guarantee of a prize
A guarantee of a prize
Then everything started to become clear
It turned out that this store was a liaison
It was holding an interesting and intriguing promotion
The next day was the opening of the store
Everyone who found orange wallets came
They were presented with a gift
A T-shirt with the inscription
The most honest person in the city
And everyone else who came to open this store
Was given orange oranges
I will tell you the results
They planned to attract 6,000 people to open the store
But 30 came
This promotion caused such a stir
It was not very expensive
But it was very interesting
It was discussed for a long time and wrote about it
I would like to bring you such promotions
And to say that if you need an interesting idea
I recommend you to contact the agency
Which specializes in this
And conducts these promotions competently
The next day
Well
Another tool is direct marketing
Or direct marketing events
Direct mail or email
Telemarketing
With which we work
We constantly communicate on the phone with our clients
It is called direct marketing
Because it is a direct personal appeal to our client
It works very effectively
If this strategy is planned
If it is not a one-time event
Which we planned to do once and forgot about it
Direct marketing events allow you to maintain the database in the current state constantly
Get feedback from the client
Then make a confidential offer
Communicate with them personally
Find out their claims, fix them and eliminate them
There is a very large field of work here
Which allows you to achieve the personalization we are talking about
Although today
Maybe some people think that it goes back to the past
Nevertheless, direct mail or email
If it is done properly and clearly
It gives very good results
Relative to its cost
What are the disadvantages?
Firstly, not everyone reads
Naturally
And the effectiveness of the mail
If it is 3-6%
It is very good
As I said, relative to the cost
It justifies itself very well
Therefore, even if 3 or 6%
Turned to you after sending
This is a great result
Consider that you have achieved what you wanted
What is related to direct marketing?
Firstly, incoming calls
What can we do with incoming calls?
Firstly, of course
Tell the information about our products
Secondly, recommend certain things
If we don't have something, switch to another product of our client
Next, set up contacts
It is important to put this contact in the database
Which will be relevant
Because the client contacted us himself
And hold some competitions
You can do it by phone or email
Among those clients
Who contact us on their own
You can also react
Or work with incoming calls
What can we do with them?
Of course, accept orders
We call the buyers
And accept orders from them
Next, just to set up contacts
To get acquainted
To find additional clients
It is a good tool
Next, conduct marketing researches and surveys
And create your own database based on it
Which will be constantly updated and supported
It is a very inexpensive way
To analyze the market, to analyze claims
To analyze the wishes of clients
It is a good communication with current clients
With our regular clients
We do it regularly with you
We communicate regularly
We find out questions, problems, wishes, etc.
And, of course, it is a communication tool
After conducting a certain promotion
To evaluate the results
How did it go, what worked, what didn't work
What did you like, what didn't, etc.
In fact, it is a very valuable source of information
Which we don't always use effectively
Nevertheless, I'd like to tell you about the effectiveness of direct marketing
With the table you can see on your slide
Regarding mail orders
If we take 100% of mail orders
Only 88% of them are opened
12% are thrown out immediately
They are not even opened
What happens to the remaining 88%?
40% are read by the person who is not intended
40% are read by the person who is intended
And 8% are thrown out again, not read
Now, what does the person who is intended do with them?
24% of them he reads and throws out
He thinks they are not interesting
10% is put aside
He thinks, well, I'll deal with it later
And only 6% get an answer
Only 6% become relevant
And this is a very good result
It's worse if such a percentage is 1-2
It means that either your database is irrelevant
Or your commercial offer was absolutely not interesting
For your key client
You have wrongly determined his wishes
That's how
You can also read additional material
In your lecture notebook
On direct marketing events
I would like to touch on the form of accountability
And the control of the event
I would like to say that according to the results
All planned events
A media plan is being developed
You can see its appearance on the slide
Where we describe each event
And we describe when it is held
What is held and where
And the budget size is necessarily written
Then the budget size is summed up
By periods, by months, by quarters
As you prefer
Why do you need such media plans?
Not only to plan and strictly follow this plan
They are also needed for political reasons
If you have a media plan
In which all budget costs are written
It is unlikely that the manager will emphasize something
By optimizing the budget
When you have a common figure
It is easier to emphasize
We do not know what it is spent on
And there is a temptation to sequester this amount
When you have all events clearly written
It is unlikely that the manager will raise his hand
To emphasize a certain amount
Because we clearly understand
What, what event and what we need it for
Therefore, I highly recommend
Planning and signing a plan and budget
From your management
In conclusion, we will touch on the calculation of event efficiency
I will tell you the main formulas
By which efficiency is calculated
And you will have tables in your workbooks
And there will be tasks on calculating the efficiency of certain actions
Where everything is clearly written
By formulas, what to calculate, what costs we take into account, etc.
So
What are we holding the actions for?
Yes, probably, for increasing sales
To achieve a certain result
To ensure the popularity of the product
But I want to say
That the efficiency of the actions can be calculated
Only by stimulating sales
The efficiency of advertising can also be calculated
But it will not be accurate
Because there, except for the economic effect
There is a communication effect
The number of contacts, the increase in the recognition, etc.
You can find out these things
Only by contacting the agency
And conducting an additional survey of consumers
Many companies simply do not go for this
Because these are additional costs
This can be done at least once a year
To understand and assess the popularity of your brand or your trademark
But the economic efficiency
The easiest and most effective way
Is to calculate it by events, by stimulating sales
And here are the main formulas
The first formula is the formula of profitability
Everyone knows it
When we take the additional sales
The sum of additional sales
We subtract the cost of the product
Which we additionally sold
And the expenses for the event itself
And we divide all this by expenses
You, of course, get the coefficient
If this coefficient is less than 1
Your share was loss
If it is equal to 1
Then your share has gone to 0
Roughly speaking, how much you received
And how much you spent
But if your share
The coefficient of loss is more than 1
You have already worked for the company's profit
Naturally, the higher the coefficient, the better
It can be 2, 3, 4, 5, etc.
It is ideal
Naturally, the higher it is, the better
The main thing is that it is more than 1
Then your share worked effectively
And one more formula
Which will help you calculate the efficiency of the share
It is the definition of the share of expenses
In the additional product turnover
What is the point of this calculation?
Look, for example, you sold the product
And additionally sold 100 units for 1,000 rubles
So, you received 100,000 additional rubles
But how much you spent from this sum
You need to determine
Not the share from the total turnover
Which was sold
Because the total could be sold without the share
How much additional income you spent
It is important
It shows how much additional money you earned
And this formula works very well and effectively
It shows what your owner wants to see
You calculate this
You take all the expenses
Which you spent on the share
You divide it by the additional income you received
And multiply it by 100%
And you get the share of additional income
Note, not in the total, but in the additional
This is how you can calculate the share
It is a whole formula
Which is described in detail in your work materials
You can refer to it
And do the practical work
The task of calculating the efficiency of a particular share
How to use the advertising tool
Dear colleagues
Today we have examined the main tools
For promoting a product to the market
It doesn't matter if it is new
Or if it is in your company's portfolio for a long time
We have seen how to use the advertising tool
How to use the public communication tools
The main methods of promoting a sale
Which are aimed at the trading link
And the end users
We have seen how the direct marketing tools work
And we have examined the formula for calculating the efficiency of a particular share
You can find more information in your work materials
And I say goodbye to you
I wish you success
In promoting your product
And bringing new brands and new interesting positions to the Russian market
All the best, goodbye